Now such that we have created everything about the app and the timer.
Now we are going to see what is going to be inside the game of our window.
So we have created a string message for the game of our thing and the font style of the game over text
is going to be like this sans serif bold and the font size is going to be 14.
Now the font matrix is going to be a special font like this.
This is a bold style text showing game over text.
Now the text color is going to be white and we have to set up font for that game over text.
We have to draw a string which shows that the window is going to be the full size of the page.
Like the text is going to be displayed in the middle of the page.
And this is done with the help of this thing, 300 minus matrix string with like the width half and
the height is halved.
So half of the width and half of the height, this is going to be in the middle of the page.
So we have successfully created the game over window.
Now let us switch to check the conditions for the collision.
Like the collisions are two way, as we already discussed, the body of the snake itself and the walls
of the frame.
So let me first create a function.
Public void check collision for checking the collision path.
So yes, we have created it the brackets and inside this we have to use a for loop for checking that
whether the coordinates of the wall and the snake are same or the snakes .1. and the other dot has the
same coordinates, then this thing going to happen that the game will over and a pop up will appear
that the game is over.
Like the popup says you are done now you can continue, which is very disheartening, I think.
We know what we want our games to be.
We want to play it multiple times without getting the snake die.
So inside the if I am going to check if Z is greater than four.
An ex of the snake and the obstacle is same, so double is equal to and then x z.
The Z is for the snake and the O is for the snake.
And that is for the object.
So if Z is greater than four and and operator.
An X zero is equal to or is equal to doubles x z.
And similarly for the y coordinate and operator, y zero is equal double equals.
Y Z.
Yes.
So this is like something the bracket closed.
And what this is will eat.
So the endgame, like I have already said, that the endgame is the note denoting the game is on.
So if I am setting the game on to false, obviously the game is going to be awkward now.
So this is the first possibility of checking the collision.
Like if the snake hits itself, then the game is going to be over.
The second possibility is that the snake hits one of the four walls and again the game will be over.
So if y is like if the y coordinate of snake becomes greater than or is equal to 300.
Like this is 300 and this is zero zero.
This is zero 300.
This is 300, comma zero.
And this is 300, 300.
So the coordinates are like this.
So if the Y coordinate becomes greater than 300.
Similarly, if the X coordinate becomes greater than 300.
And if the Y coordinate becomes less than zero.
Like there are four walls, one in the origin side and one in the 300 side.
And also the X coordinate becomes less than.
ZITO Yes.
So all the four walls are set to this.
And these are the conditions which will set in game two forth, like the game is on two falls and the
game will be over.
If not Endgame, then the timer is stopped.
So if the game is over, then the timer will stop automatically.
Like the snake will stop moving and the game over window will be pop up.
So yes, there are five cases total, six cases covered inside this collision, like for the snake hitting
itself, hitting any of the four walls.
And if these five cases upwards, then the end game will become false and the timer will stop automatically.
So we have covered this part also.
Now move to the next part.
Now coming to the prototype, like the mainframe, we have designed what we have covered till now.
So we have covered seven things like we have created the project, added the image, created the frame
place, the images inside, placed the images one behind the other.
We have located the apple.
We have also created a function for collisions, checking the collisions.
So these two are also completed.
So now what's left?
So implementation of the keyboard events.
So now we will jump to this directly.
Now, in order to create the keyboard functionalities which will make the snake move, we have to create
a class for that.
The adapter is the name of the class and we will extend this to a component of the like swing which
is called key adapter.
And.
So yes we have extends extends.
Key adapter inside this we will create a public void.
Depressed.
Public void depressed.
Which will recognize that the key is blessed breast like and in creating an event as the argument which
says.
The event is EA Sports.
And inside this event we are going to create integer key which like calls the method get key.
Code.
So the code of the key which is being pressed.
Now so that we have created this function.
Now we will check using if that.
The variable key.
Is a key event.
And the key event says.
Like the key, which is pressed is the left key.
So we write it as we left, underscore left.
And this check if the key presses the left side key and not equal to the right direction.
Right direction.
Off the frame after completing this.
So we have an extra bracket.
And so this F is going to check that if we have pressed the left and not the right direction.
So it will set the left direction to true.
So let us first call these variables as the global variables above here.
So below this I am going to create a private boolean for less direction set to false similarly for the
right direction again setting it to false and for the up and down as well.
So we are done with three.
One more to go and that is down direction.
Initially everything is set to false.
So we have created all the global variables.
Also, we have one more boolean variable.
We have to face it.
The code will look nice so if end game is true.
So all the boolean variables are at one place.
Now moving towards the keyboard functionality.
Now, after checking the if condition for the left depressed, we have to set the left direction as
true and the snake will move leftward.
And the other two as follows.
Now, up and down as false.
We have already checked it for the right key above here, not right direction, which automatically
denotes that the right direction is false.
We do not have to bother writing it here.
We have already set it to false.
Now if key event for left is set, now we have to copy and paste it four more times for all the four
keyboard keys which we are going to use.
So pasting it four more times or the right left hand up and down, right head, right, left.
Similarly, like we have read, wrote it for the left key.
It is caps lock right.
And for up.
Moving towards the up key.
And we have to set not further down detection.
We will change this in sometime after completing this path.
So yes, we are done with all the four keys and her writing up.
So this is for.
Right.
So we have to set the right direction as to true we believe this.
Okay.
So here we have up, and here we have down.
After which we have to pasted this place.
So where we set the right direction as to now head the direction and down direction.
So up is true and down is false.
So we have to set it up to true and we have to paste right, left and right direction is false.
So just changing it this way.
I'm pasting the whole thing here.
Just.
We have to change this width down.
Yes, down.
So we are done with all the keyboard functionalities, like we have functions for all the four keys
if we are going to press any of the four, that is action which will be listen after the press.
So by far we have covered every section of the main game section aspect of the snake itself.
So now we are going to cover that how the move function will work, like how the snake will move in
the next part.
And we will see that how the images are hiding behind the tail of the snake after editing the apple
and the repeated repetition of this process.
So yes, like all the functions are covered.
Now, in the next part we are going to create a move function.
See you in the next part.